Line editor page (#287)
nushell/nushell.github.io: book/line_editor.md

# Reedline. Nushell's line editor

Nushell's line editor [Reedline](https://github.com/nushell/reedline) is a cross platform
line reader designed to be modular and flexible. The engine is in charge of controlling
the command history, validations, completions, hints and screen paint.

## Configuration

### Editing mode

Reedline allows you to edit text using two modes: vi and emacs. In order to select

> your favorite you need to modify your config file and write down your preferred mode.

Reviewer: First question I had when reading this: what's the default mode?

For example:
```bash
  let $config = {
    ...
    edit_mode: emacs
    ...
  }
```

Each edit mode comes with the usual keybinding for vi and emacs text editing. However you
can define additional keybindings to improve your editing experience.

### Command history

As mentioned before, Reedline manages and stores all the commands that are edited and sent
to Nushell. To configure the max number of records that Reedline should store you will need
to adjust this value in your config file:

```bash
  let $config = {
    ...
    max_history_size: 1000
    ...
  }
```

### Customizing your prompt

> Reedline prompt is also highly customizable. In order to construct you perfect prompt, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reedline prompt is also highly customizable. In order to construct your perfect prompt, you
```

`UntilFound([])` event is the same as the `until` type mentioned before.

### Edit type

The `edit` type is the simplification of the `Edit([])` event. The `event` type simplifies defining complex
editing events for the keybindings. To list the available options you can use the next command
```bash
keybindings list | where type == edits
```
The usual syntax for an `edit` is the next one
```bash
    ...
      event: { edit: <NAME OF EDIT FROM LIST> }
    ...
```
The syntax for the edits in the list that have a `()` changes a little bit. Since those edits require an extra
value to be fully defined. For example, if we would like to insert a string where the prompt is
located, then you will have to use
```bash
    ...
      event: {
        edit: insertstring
        value: "MY NEW STRING"
      }
    ...
```
or say you want to move right until the first `S`
```bash
    ...
      event: {
        edit: moverightuntil
        value: "S"
      }
    ...
```

As you can see, these two types will allow you to construct any type of keybinding that you require

### Until type

To complete this keybinding tour we need to discuss the `until` type for event. As you have seen so

> far, you can send a single event or a list of events. And as we have seen, wWhen a list of events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
far, you can send a single event or a list of events. And as we have seen, when a list of events
```

reaches the command.

For example, the next keybinding will always send a `down` because that event is always successful

```bash
  let $config = {
    ...

    keybindings: [
      {
        name: completion_menu
        modifier: control
        keycode: char_t
        mode: emacs
        event: {
          until: [
            { send: down }
            { send: menu name: completion_menu }
            { send: menunext }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]

    ...
  }
```

## Menus

Thanks to Reedline, Nushell has menus that can help you with your day to day shell scripting.

### Completion menu

The completion menu is a [context sensitive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ujDIU7HPdHc) menu that will
present suggestions based on what is the status of the prompt. These suggestions can range from path
suggestions to command alternatives. While writing a command, you can activate the menu to see available
flags for an internal command. Also, if you have defined your custom completions for external commands,
these will appear in the menu as well.

The completion menu by default is accessed by pressing `tab` and it can be configured by

> modifying the next values from the config object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modifying these values from the config object:
```

      text_style: green  # Text color style for non selected text
      selected_text_style: green_reverse  # Color style for selected text
      marker: "| "       # Indicator that appears when the menu is active
    }

    ...
  }
```

By modifying these parameters you can customize the layout of your menu to your liking.

### History menu

The history menu is a handy way to access the editor history. When activating the menu (default `Ctrl+x`)
the command history is presented in reverse chronological order, making it extremely easy to select a
previous command.

The history menu can be configured by modifying the next values from the config object

```bash
  let $config = {
    ...

    history_config: {
      page_size: 10      # Number of entries that will presented when activating the menu
      selector: "!"      # Character to indicate a quick selection in the menu
      text_style: green  # Text color style for non selected text
      selected_text_style: green_reverse  # Color style for selected text
      marker: "? "       # Indicator that appears when the menu is active
    }

    ...
  }

```

> When the history menu is activated, `page_size` number of records is pulled from the history and presented
> in the menu. If there is space in the terminal, when you press again `Ctrl+x` the menu will pull the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the history menu is activated, it pulls `page_size` records from the history and presents them
in the menu. If there is space in the terminal, when you press `Ctrl+x` again the menu will pull the same
```

the menu is activated, anything that you type will be replaced by the selected command from your history.
for example, say that you have already typed this

```bash
let a = ()
```
you can place the cursor inside the `()` and activate the menu. You can filter the history by typing
key words and as soon as you select an entry, the typed words will be replaced

```bash
let a = (ls | where size > 10MiB)
```

#### Menu quick selection

Another nice feature of the menu is the ability to quick select something from it. Say you have
activated your menu and it looks like this

```bash
>
0: ls | where size > 10MiB
1: ls | where size > 20MiB
2: ls | where size > 30MiB
3: ls | where size > 40MiB
```
Instead of pressing down to select the fourth entry, you can type `!3` and press enter. This will
insert the selected text in the prompt position, saving you time scrolling down the menu.

Both, history search and quick selection, can be used together. You can activate you menu, do a quick
search and then quick select using the quick selection character.

It should be mentioned that if you would like to change the quick selection character for something else,

> you can modify the `selector` value from the `history_config` in the `$config` object.

Reviewer: Could probably remove this sentence, `selector` is already mentioned in the example above and I don't think it will be a common thing to change
